>> Mike North: So we're gonna go
though the solution to this exercise.
But first, we had a question online
about what I'm using to test my CSS.
So I'm gonna show you what exactly
how I'm testing the CSS and
then show you a real way
of testing CSS that is not
specifically oriented towards a workshop.
So what I'm doing is, if I get rid
of this, give myself some room,
I'm doing two things and
really only one of them is interesting.
But the first thing I do here in my test,
if you look at the tests.js
file In your public folder and
you're familiar with JavaScript,
you'll see that oftentimes,
I'll just end up calling
this hasStyle function.
So I'll take you where
that hasStyle function is
defined.
>> Mike North: It's here, I believe.
Nope.
>> Mike North: There we go.
This looks right.
Here's my assert.
>> Mike North: I'm sorry.
I'm jumping around here.
It's in the root folder of
the project in Public, js.
And then tester and utils.
So in tester, you see here is
this assert that I'm using.
And when I check.
>> Mike North: When I look at hasStyle,
this basically goes amd fetches and
element in the HTML.
And then if nothing is found,
I throw, right?
Throwing is gonna be what indicates that
there's a failure of some sort, right?
So there's that throw.
>> Mike North: And
then I use this function that's available
on window called getComputedStyle.
What this is gonna return is
an object that looks like
a completely exhaustive style declaration,
with like every property possible
to specify on an element.
So you're gonna have everything
from text decoration,
to opacity, to font size, and
I can iterate over those.
And basically,
on a property by property basis, assert
that the important things I wanna check
for have the values that I want to check.
Now one down side of this is that
things kind of get boiled down to,
sometimes they get boiled down to values
that look a different from what we
specify in our style sheets.
Which is why occasionally
in these test failures,
you're seeing RGB colors like
I expected this RGB color.
Like ultimately, that's the value
that these things end up getting,
even though we might have defined
it using a hex color value.
But I have no control over how
it eventually gets resolved.
But getComputedStyle is a great
way of figuring out ultimately,
on the screen,
what's the style of this thing?
After all the classes
have been defined and
everything comes out,
what does it end up being?
So then when I run through and
I test everything,
which I think is
>> Mike North: Down here.
So I basically run those
assertions one by one.
And if they throw, I call unfail, which is
gonna add an error message to the screen.
So I kind of built this just for
the workshop, you wouldn't wanna do this
as a way of testing that your
CSS is what you want it to be.
Because it's a little bit too
much like asserting that things
are as you set them, right?
Imagine if you had to say I set
this variable equal to 15 and
now I'm gonna assert that it
equals 15 in a test like.
There is really now a lot of value there.
I'm gonna saw you something
that is a step up.
And this is company called Percy.
They integrate with GitHub and
provide you with image based diff testing.
So what we're seeing here is
like screenshots of a page.
And when you run through your integration
tests and your unit tests, like Travis CI
or CircleCI, something like this, what it
will do is it'll keep track of screenshots
of the most recently applied,
like most recently approved build.
And if there is a per pixel difference as
you take screen shots for the next build,
which it does using an automated tool,
that's like a headless version of Firefox.
It actually like sends HTML over wire,
like over the network,
which is then rendered in Firefox,
in their cloud.
You can see here, we've got like red
highlights where things have changed.
You could even specify
like certain selectors.
Like take a screenshot of this box here,
so you can like cut out the navbar so
that's not gonna trigger changes
on all of your screenshots.
And ultimately, you can have maybe
a product donor come in here and
they just have to give a manual
thumbs up saying like, yes
these differences in the way the screens
look, that is intended, that is approved.
And then that actually integrates
with the approval system in GitHub.
Just like your test passes and fails.
So if you hook this up with like a CD
pipeline, continuous deployment pipeline,
It can end up being a sign off,
just clicking a button saying yes,
this looks good, that results in your
new app being sent to production, right?
So I like this way of
testing your styles better.
It's sort of a bottom line thing, where if
you change some colors, it would pop up.
But you don't have to get into
the granular nuts and bolts of each and
every rule of your styles and
each and every possible combination.
Like asserting that
those are what they are.
Now this is something that you
can't run locally very easily.
It's also not free.
>> Mike North: So
it's not really appropriate for the kind
of exercises that we're going through.
But the rumor that we
can't test CSS is false.
And image based testing is sort of the way
to go about it as far as I know, right?
This is what, in particular.
My computer went to sleep, sorry.
In particular,
this is what like newspaper sites do.
I know BBC has an open
source library called Wraith
that does something very similar to this.
Where they're very sensitive to making
sure that layouts of particular articles,
because essentially,
they have very dynamic content with.
Their layouts are not fixed.
And so they have a couple representative
articles of several types and
they just make sure that
all their CSS works there.
So that's the low down on testing CSS.
It's sort of a new idea.
Like we obviously know we would love
to have test coverage around this area.
But it is not well understood
what the best practices are.
This has worked well for
me in enterprise apps and
in tiny little startup apps and
in my own little training web sites.
I tend to use Parsey,
just because it plugs in really easily.
>> Mike North: So with that,
let's go through the solution to this.
So what we were looking for,
just as a reminder,
is If we open up the exercise here.
Let me make sure I'm still running it.
And I am.
So if we look in the parent folder, in our
exercises folder, and look at the HTML,
we'll see that what we have is a container
with right nav applied to it, right?
And we know that what we want is,
for the sidebar,
when we have right nav applied,
to go to the right side.
And the main content should
come over to the left.
So we're going to open up
this source folder, app.scss.
What we have here is the styles
that are required for
what we're looking at on
our screen right now.
And we are going to extend them so
that the right nav does what we want it
to do.
>> Mike North: So the first thing I'm
going to do is I want to put right nav
kind of at the bottom of my styles.
This is a decorator class, right?
This is, when we talk about bem,
this would be a modifier.
It's a flag that changes
the way this block behaves.
And we want it at the bottom,
because we want to make sure
that It is overwriting some
of the default styles.
Now it's overwriting the default styles
anyway because we have another class added
to it, which is gonna be right-nav
>> Mike North: But to me,
it makes a little bit more sense to also
have it below so that it's very clear.
Even if you're reading
it from top to bottom,
you can get an idea of what this
thing should do in general.
And then you go down and you see,
here are the different modes.
Here's the mobile specific stuff and
the right align stuff.
And you're sort of easier on your
colleague developers by doing this.
So inside the right-nav, what we're going
to end up doing is defining some of these
same classes here, but in the context of
right-nav being applied to the container.
So we're gonna probably
end up with a sidebar and
a main in here somewhere.
>> Mike North: So currently,
the side bar is 200 pixels while
we're gonna keep that, right?
And when right-nav is applied,
we want it to float right.
>> Mike North: And
now we'll see that it is
overlapping on top of main content.
If we were to inspect element,
we can see that.
>> Mike North: It's over here,
it's shrunken way down, It's all up
in main element's business there.
So we're gonna wanna undo some of
the stuff up here that was done to
make room for the side bar.
For one, this margin left is not
what we're looking for here.
In fact, we're probably gonna want
the exact same thing on the right side and
from margin left to be 0.
So did anyone notice that I've
got these little stacks of things
popping up to the left of
my CSS style declarations?
These are CSS triggers.
This is a nice little
visual studio code plugin.
Let me make a little room for myself here
so that we can show it on the screen more
easily.
>> Mike North: So there are three
things you need to worry about in terms
of like the cost of a style declaration.
And that is whether one or two or
three of three things potentially
needs to be updated as a result
of applying this style.
One of them is composite, one of them
is paint, and one of them is layout.
So an example of something that
would affect layout is changing
things that have to do with the box
model of an element, right?
It's width, height, padding,
margin, something like that.
Box shadow, right?
And so in this case, margin right is
definitely going to require layout.
And so when we think about like reflowing,
right?
These are CSS things that when you apply
them, things are gonna sort of potentially
end up juggling around
the screen a little bit.
That is costly.
That is asking the browser's
layout engine to do some work.
And it's not cheap work.
Painting is relatively cheap.
And that would be like changing
the color of something.
So if we go up here and
we look at background here,
this one is saying that it only
require composite and paint, right?
Background color could not change
the organization of our elements
on the screen.
So you can see that the purple item here,
which represents the layout,
we don't have to pay that price for
background.
>> Mike North: Compositing has to do with
taking multiple layers of CSS and kind of
figuring out what goes on top of what.
So oftentimes,
you can't get away from compositing.
That's sort of the lowest level price that
you have to pay, if that makes sense.
And let me see if I can get one
that just does compositing.
I'm just taking a guess here.
>> Mike North: Yep, there you go.
Opacity.
Opacity is not changing any colors, right?
So we don't have to like figure out
that ff6631 is equal to what color and
let's redraw that on the screen.
But we have some intermediate layers
in memory and the browser and
we're gonna need to figure out
how those things blend together.
So those are those three layers.
Compositing is sort of
blending of things together.
Painting is redrawing
certain areas because you've
changed those intermediate
layers that get composited.
One or more of them has, It needs
an update because you've changed something
about it that's going to mean we
need to do something new there.
And then finally,
the most expensive is layout.
And that really,
the expensive work there is we have to
recalculate the size of many things and
figure out how they should all fit onto
a screen of that particular width, right?
This is very expensive.
This is like much more expensive
than either of the other two.
So although oftentimes,
you can't really get away with,
there's not too much you can
do with this information.
One thing that we could see here, though,
is if we had to choose between opacity and
then changing the color to
something like this.
>> Mike North: Right,
like if we added an alpha channel to
a color versus change the opacity,
we can see that one's a little
bit cheaper than the other.
So this is getting into some really
granular optimization stuff here.
>> Mike North: All right.
Now, I promise I'm actually
going through the solution here.
It was a useful tangent.
[LAUGH] So we're floating.
>> Mike North: So we've
got margin auto here, we've got margin
right of 220 pixels on main content.
Margin left should be 0 for main.
And now, we can see we're
already looking pretty good.
We've got our side bar on our right,
we've got main content on the left.
Those look like they're about level
in terms of where those headings are.
So it looks like the padding is not
something I'm going to have to deal with.
I will have to mess with the border
a little bit here on the main element and
move that border to the right and
set border-left equal to none.
And we should be good to go.
And so now, if I go back to my HTML,
remove right-nav and reapply it.
So we've built a nice,
lightweight little decorator class there
that lets us toggle between two different
layouts just by applying this secondary
class that's acting like a flag.
If we go and
look at the CCS that was generated her.
Let me get rid of my sidebar so
we can see better.
You can see that a lot of
this is broadly used and
these are just the two extra
rules that were built for me.
And now, we kind of get this two different
states of the container represented
in as concise a way as you could possibly
get where you are writing from old CSS.
But in our SaaS file, It's very clear
that this concept of right-nav,
it's sort of a property, it's a mode
that this container can go into, right?
It belongs in the context
of that container.